# OpenMP_assgn3 
1. Q1. DAXPY Loop
D stands for Double precision, A is a scalar value, X and Y are one-
dimensional vectors of size 2^16 each, P stands for Plus. The operation
to be completed in one iteration is X[i] = a*X[i] + Y[i]. Implement an
MPI program to complete the DAXPY operation. Measure the speedup of the
MPI implementation compared to a uniprocessor implementation. The double
MPI Wtime() function is the equivalent of the double omp get wtime().


Q2. Calculation of π - MPI Bcast and MPI Reduce
This is the first example where many processs will cooperate to calculate
a computational value. The task of this program will be arrive at an
approximate value of π. The serial version of the code follows.
static long num_steps = 100000;
double step;
void main ()
{
int i;
double x, pi, sum = 0.0; step = 1.0/(double)num_steps; for (i=0;
i<num_steps; i++) { x = (i+0.5)*step;
sum = sum + 4.0/(1.0+x*x);
}
pi = step * sum;
}
Your task is to create a parallel MPI version of the π program. For this
version, use the MPI Bcast and MPI Reduce functions.
• Broadcast the total steps value (num steps) to all the processs
(process 0 could broadcast). The syntax and usage of MPI Bcast follow:
– MPI Bcast(void *message, int count, MPI Datatype datatype, int root,
MPI Comm comm);:
Broadcast a message from the process with rank “root” to all other
processes of the group. – Example: MPI Bcast(&n, 1, MPI INT, 0, MPI COMM
WORLD);. process 0 broadcasts n, of type MPI INT, to all the processs
MPI COMM WORLD.
• Each process calculates its partial π value.
• Use MPI Reduce to reduce the partial π values generated by each
process. MPI Reduce is executed by every process.


Q3. Write a program to find all positive primes up to some maximum value,
using MPI_Recv to receive requests for integers to test. The master will
loop from 2 to the maximum value on
1.issue MPI_Recv and wait for a message from any slave (MPI_ANY_SOURCE),
2.if the message is zero, the process is just starting, if the message
is negative, it is a non-prime, if the message is positive, it is a
prime.
3.use MPI_Send to send a number to test.
and each slave will send a request for a number to the master, receive
an integer to test, test it, and return that integer if it is prime, but
its negative value if it is not prime.
